# Commentary to accompany Text Complexity Code

I designed this to be my interview because I wanted to highlight how much my coding ability (in general, and in `scala` specifically) has improved since I first designed this project.  When I first built this system, I had only been coding in `scala` for less than six months.  It is now a year later, and so this entire system has been built with less than two years of experience with `scala` (and, frankly, only about three years of coding in any language).


##Main Advancements

I will highlight some of the main improvements that I was able to make to this system.  
**Note:** While I have many ideas of how to improve the *performance* of the classifier itself, most of my improvement were more related to the engineering of the system than the features themselves, with one exception that is explained below.

###Added Feature###

Discuss coherence here

###Clarity###

I use the Intellij IDE for `scala`, and the code completion is a great asset.  It does, however allow me to generate relatively incomprehensible lines of code.  

A perfect example of this is my use of `map`.  I think I used to believe that use of `map` was more "elegant" than a standard `for` loop, and so I would use it all the time.  For example:

```scala
this.document.map(_.sentences.map(_.words.toVector)).flatten.flatten
```

And I suppose if "elegant" is defined as "takes up only one line", then this would qualify.  But I've come to appreciate the importance of comprehensible code, and so I have replaced most instances (I still think, obviously, that `map` has its place) of iterations with a standard `for` loop for clarity.

###Documentation###

I have always added comments to my code, but it was never particularly systematic, and it lacked any portability; You had to be "knee-deep" into the code before you could even see the comments.  And then I discovered [`scaladoc`](http://docs.scala-lang.org/style/scaladoc.html).  It was a simple shift to simply utilized `scaladoc` syntax in my comments, but the bigger shift is in the mentality of documentation for the sake of others.  I now write my comments in the `scaladoc` syntax and in such a way as to facilitate others' understanding of my code.

A friend of mine showed me some plugins for publshing the documen generated by `scaladoc` on a web page, but I haven't committed time to figuring that out yet.  In the meantime, a few screenshot of the documentation are [here] and [here]. 



